---
title: "Effectiveness of cues intervention training for health care providers in US HIV clinic setting. National Conference on Health and Domestic Violence"
collection: conference
type: "Conference Poster"
permalink: /talks/2021-04-28-poster
venue: "National Conference on Health and Domestic Violence"
date: 2021-04-28
location: "Virtual"
---

**Title**: Effectiveness of CUES intervention training for health care providers in US HIV clinic setting
<br>**Authors**: Park E, Yip J, Kukke S, Caffery M, Johnson A, Huerta M, Amabile C, Wagman J.
<br>**Background**: HIV-positive women in the United States experience Intimate Partner Violence (IPV) and Sexual Violence (SV) at a higher rate (55%) than the general population. IPV can compromise the HIV cascade of care and overall health of women living with HIV. Women with recent history of IPV have more than 4 times the rate of antiretroviral therapy failure, and of not practicing safe sex, as women who have not experienced IPV recently. HIV care providers must be aware of the effects IPV may have on HIV treatment and need to be able to provide comprehensive, patient-centric, trauma-informed care for affected women. 
<br>**Program Description**: Twenty-one HIV service providers from University of California San Diego Mother-Child-Adolescent HIV program (UCSD MCAP) participated in the Confidentiality, Universal Education and Empowerment, and Support (CUES) intervention training in April 2019. Two consultants from Futures Without Violence conducted a 2-day training to prepare health care team to provide responsive trauma-informed care, and improve counseling interventions for their clients. Participants completed pre and post self-assessment on IPV and CUES. Changes in pre- to post-training self-assessment were measured to assess participants’ self-efficacy, attitudes, knowledge towards addressing IPV after the CUES training. 
<br>**Results**: The post training mean for self-efficacy in addressing IPV/SV showed an increase from 3.4 of 5 to 4.3 of 5 (p<0.001). Knowledge related to survivors of IPV/SV increased from 70.1% to 84.3% and awareness on IPV/SV referral services and resources increased from 70.1% to 86.4%. More than 90% of participants agreed or strongly agreed that the CUES intervention appears to be feasible to implement in the practice. 
<br>**Discussion**: To ensure effective routine universal standardized Intimate Partner Violence (IPV) screening and counseling in HIV clinic setting, HIV care team training, system change, and strong community referral network should be established. 

Download the Poster
